Welcome back.
We finally made it here.
It took a while but we're in probably the most exciting section at least for me.
We're going to be talking about object oriented programming and functional programming both of these
are what we call Programming Paradigms object oriented programming and functional programming.
Our paradigms that allow us to organize code in a way that is easy to reason about.
What does that really mean by the end of this section after we've done talking about Opie and FP.
My goal is that you realize these benefits.
One is that by using these paradigms we're going to make code more clear and more understandable.
We're going to make code easy to extend that is as our app grows as our programs grow as the number
of developers working on a project grow.
It's easier to extend using these programming paradigms.
I'm also going to convince you how it's easier to maintain by multiple programmers.
It's going to be memory efficient.
And then finally it's going to keep our code dry.
That is we won't repeat ourself.
Our code is gonna be nice and clean and we're gonna have all these benefits because of these programming
paradigms.
And that's what programming paradigms are.
It allows us to make complex code more organized now before we even had OPI and FP we had well machine
code right.
Initially it was all ones and zeros that programmers used.
And then as time passed we went into something called procedural style of programming in a procedural
style of programming is that.
Well we did what computers want us to do that is we would store data and then manipulate that data using
some sort of functions.
But there was no structure or organization.
We just had step by step instructions of Hey computer put memory here.
Hey computer move this memory here.
Hey computer change the memory here and then give me this.
Everything was procedural and I'll link to this Wikipedia article which I think is really really interesting.
If you want to give it a go as I said before initially we started with some very basic programming languages
really low level languages we have things like basic assembly language COBOL and then throughout the
60s and 70s a big change happened.
We started establishing these fundamental paradigms.
How can you write code in a more organized fashion.
So it wasn't as procedural that's when object oriented programming and functional programming started
to really take effect.
We had languages like Scheme which we mentioned was one of the inspirations of JavaScript.
We had languages like Smalltalk that really popularized this idea of object oriented programming as
a way to organize this code.
And then finally in the 80s as more and more best practices start to happen we started having more of
a consolidation that is people agreeing on what some good patterns are.
We had things like a modules that once again we'll talk about and we have a section on object oriented
programming really started taking off.
You see we had languages like C++ that came into existence and C++ was simply the original C language
with classes classes which allowed us to do object oriented programming we had Objective C as the name
suggest it was a C based language inspired by the idea of objects and object oriented programming and
that really started to take effect.
But at the same time in the background we also had functional programming in the 90s with the age of
the Internet.
We started having more languages Java became extremely popular with their object oriented paradigm.
We had javascript that came as the language of the web and many other languages that we're familiar
with now object oriented programming kept up with the trends and was really really popularized by things
like Java.
However now we see a trend towards functional programming languages becoming more and more popular mostly
because of the way that the paradigm works and how well it works with concurrent and distributed programming.
Again something that we'll touch on later on I highly recommend you go through this article is really
really fascinating.
But the whole point of this was that as the years progressed programmers as we worked more and more
with code we started to develop an idea of what our good practices what should we do an object oriented
programming and functional programming.
Were the two strong paradigms that evolved.
So by learning these two things we get to stand on shoulders of giants.
We get to learn what are the good practices that all these programmers that came before us learned that
they made mistakes and then they've changed in the way that they program so that we write better code.
And in this section we're going to do just that.
We're going to learn from everybody's mistake in the past.
We're going to learn from all the ideas and all the ways that we can write better programs.
I hope that gets you excited.
It definitely does for me and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.